Welcome to importing images as planes.
In this video you will set up an add on that enables you to import images as planes be able to import
an image into a scene and realize this can be another way of importing reference material.
So let's go hop on over in a blender.
Okay so back over in blender our rabbit is coming along really well.
So let's hop over to the 3-d view here.
And well we just got a pair of highs for the moment.
A lot of counter views come out of there.
Excellent.
That's unhide some of the other stuff that's in the scene.
So with this rabbit coming along quite nicely we're going to start to want to give it some environment
and we're going to do some grass for that.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to add grass.
This plane here but I'm going to choose this new layer over here.
Lay a five.
If you wanted three four five.
Pretty sure if you hit number five on the key pad it would take you there as well or five yeah.
Brilliant.
So now that we're on this layer I'm going to respond to the cursor with shift and see down to here.
And I want to add an image as a plane.
Now what you will need to do is go to file user preferences and go to your add ons tab at the top.
Now you can search through this entire one here.
If we go to the search menu on the top left and type in plane we will have the option to import export
import images as planes.
If he makes sure on the rights of the user preferences there's a little tick in the tick box on check
box and then save your user settings.
Then when you exit the user preferences when you go shift in a under meche you you'll have images as
planes as one of your options.
So go ahead and click on that now.
Now what I'd like you to do is go ahead to your asset pack right now and go ahead and open up the nature's
texture folder.
And I'm going to just toggle the thumbnail view so I can see my images.
As you can see I've taken a few images.
Some of these are from photos I've taken in the past and I've altered them to fit into our system here
quite well.
Now you would notice all the images themselves are square.
Now that is important.
I won't go into the details about that just at the moment but suffice to say there is important that
there are all powers of two and that makes them square right.
I'm going to go ahead and pick grass blade.
They all notice that of all the grass blades one of them is white and will be dealing with that in a
future lecture.
But not this one.
So open up a grass blade toe.
And we can see that it's pots a plane into us now going to view it's from the top.
It's just literally that it's a plane with that bit of grass on it.
Now obviously we can't see that at the moment so how do we go about doing that.
Well if we change the view mode the viewport shading here from solid to texture we will see it.
Now everything that was transparent on that image has gone black and everything that's got the image
on it itself has gone well is the image is the blade of grass.
Now we can also see that in material mode and of course in the rendered mode as well.
So that's how you will see that on there.
Now this is an incredibly powerful way of bringing in reference material as well because it's not limited
to the x y and z plane.
So you can use it if necessary to bring in a reference image in a very specific location.
Armed with that knowledge.
I think it's time for a challenge.
OK.
I would like you to practice importing images as planes.
So go ahead and import to other grass blade images not the one with the white background.
Oh to the origins to be at the bottom of the grass image so where it comes where it would come up out
of the ground and just make sure that all the origins are at the Z equals zero and leave a space between
the images see if they're all coming in in one place they're going to be on top of one another.
So they aren't on top of one another.
Then finally make sure that the origins are all at Z equals zero.
And leave a space between the images so they're not on top of one another.
Suppose a video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's see how we can import to more grass images over in blender.
Right so we've got the one image over into our system we're going to come out of rendered mode and hop
back into solid mode for the moment.
No.
I'm going to hop into texture mode.
Why not.
And I'm just going to move that to one side.
Going to imports all of my images first before doing anything else of course you can do all of the options
you want.
Let's have a look.
Let's imports all.
I quite like the look of this one here Number 10 looks quite interesting and I'm going to move that
to the side here using the manipulator.
And one final.
Let me to this go and add that shift day images as planes and I'm going to pick this tall grass seed
one that's a nice and nice difference there.
There are left or right.
Doesn't matter.
Okay so we've got those there and what have we got to do we've got to make the origins.
Now the great thing about the three curses you've realized in past lectures is it sticks to the thing
you're clicking on.
So what we can do here is are I've run out of zoom so I've not got a number pad with me so I'm going
to use the View menu and go to have you selected.
It's going to zoom right in and allow me to zoom in a little further.
We've got the clipping there of the camera going on so I can actually change that.
But I don't need to get much closer than this anyway.
And I'm going to select about there with it's now final Lakers were in object mode I can go to set origin
to the 3D cursor.
Let's go ahead and go over here and do the same.
Select this object select where it had come out of the ground which is probably about there and set
origin to the 3D cursor.
And we've got one final image to do.
Which is this one here that select it and click down there.
Is that right in the right place.
Let's have a look.
Excellent set the origin to the 3-d cursor.
Brilliant.
So that's our three images ready to go.
How did you guys get on.
Please share in the discussions your three images that you've chosen and I will see you in the next
lecture.